---
layout:     post
title:      Young People's First CPU
subtitle:   Qui cherche, trouve.
date:       2020-11-27
author:     zhamao
timecost:   30 minutes
# header-style: black
# header-mask: 0.01
header-img-credit:      Chen Yuhan
header-img-year:        2020
header-img-outchain:    true
header-img: https://s3.ax1x.com/2020/11/22/D8TLJe.png
catalog: true
mathjax: false
live2d:  false
tags:
    - Verilog
    - Xilinx Vivado
    - Computer Organization
---

> Which boy doesn't want to build his own CPU?
> This blog is base on the REPORT of homework: **Single Cycle Central Processing Unit** in DCS209-Laboratory of Computer Organization.

# Design Experiment of Single Cycle CPU

***Chen Yuhan, 19335025, chenyh369@mail2.sysu.edu.cn,*** *Teacher: Guo Xuemei, TAs: Wang Tingwei & Ding Wen, School of Data and Computer Science, Sun Yat-sen University, started on Nov.27th and completed on TODO:.*

## Purpose

1. Understand the instruction system commonly used in MIPS and master the working principle and logic function realization of the single cycle CPU.
2. By observing and analyzing the running condition of single cycle CPU, we can further understand it.

## Devices

1. A PC with Xilinx Vivado 2017.4 installed
2. Xilinx FPGA BASYS 3 platform

## Tasks

1. Based on Xilinx FPGA basys3 experimental platform, using HDL language (Verilog HDL language or VHDL language) to achieve the design of a single cycle CPU. The single cycle CPU can complete at least 16 MIPS instructions, including at least the following instructions:
   1. Support basic memory operations such as `lw`, `sw` instructions
   2. Support basic arithmetic logic operations such as `add`, `sub`, `and`, `ori`, `slt`, `addi` instructions
   3. Support basic program control such as `beq`, `j` instruction
2. Master the relevant functions of each instruction and output the simulation results for verification.
3. Finally, it is implemented on FGPA, and the ALU calculation results are displayed on the digital tube of the development board.

## Experimental principle

### About single cycle CPU

>TODO: To Be Done.
